and others it'll be a big national opportunity
like the supercliner or a need like a
supercomputer, although that really hasn't
worked out because each institution is still too
much caught up with we need to have our own for the
statement it makes. We could have far greater
supercomputing resources in the state for our
institutions had we been able to in that early
stage embrace this collaboration and had it at
heart. But just not in the culture. You want to own
your own. Yeah, we can talk about that. We've got
hours. Yeah, yeah.
That's what we're talking about. When we want to
come over everybody's dead body, you get it.
That's right. And in my judgment, from A&M, when I
was on the campus responsible, hell, I know. who
had the second worst job down there. I mean, right
after being the football coach, you did not want to
be in charge of computing, because it impacted
everybody's life. And when the computer went
down, my phone didn't stop ringing. Because at
first they called the director of the computer
center, and they couldn't get the satisfaction
out of him. And then they wanted to know where the
buck stopped. And so it was my suggestion from A&M
that we get our major big time supercomputing
resources in a collaboration with everybody else
at HARC and let everybody share the best rather
than piecing together what you could get. But it's
hard to sell that. But we go through those issues.
HARC is an incredible resource to the entities
that are smart enough to know how to use it. And what
I intend to do is to keep HARC quick responsive and
flexible so that when one of our collaborative
institutions calls us and says, hmm, it was just
like this call just right now from George. We're
talking about a $500 million opportunity. You
can't pick up the phone call, any of these others,
and talk about that. But we can do that here. I mean,
those are opportunities that are fun. And they're
exciting, and it takes the collaborative
approach. As soon as, and you just have to be
patient. It's working. It's not working nearly as
rapidly as I could see that it could if you could
just convince everybody else that you were right.
If they'd just follow your lead and do what you say.
And if they did, it'd probably all blow up, and
you'd be sorry they did. So there's good checks and
balances in the natural way things evolve. But it
still evolves much faster here because it's
private. It's free enterprise driven. It has a
selection of people on its board that are
handpicked because of their intellect and
accomplishments. And it attracts
the two percenters. That's an interesting
concept. The guys that are really looking for the
net under their life Don't want to touch this
place. Because this is risky and
entrepreneurial. I mean, you give up a tenured
full professorship. I told Amy that when it came
down. Yeah, so did I. So did I. Every one of my staff
at T's that came here within a year to say, you know,
I can't stay there. Is there a place for me here? I
said, look, I'm going to tell you. When I left T's, I
had a real gut-wrenching sense of responsibility
for every one of them. Because I recruited you into
that organization. I handpicked every one of
those people. And we bought in together to the new
direction and started to work on it and made it
happen. And I said, that had the net of the state of
Texas. We all had faculty tenured positions. And
when I turned that in and left to come to HARC, this
was an institution with the backing of no
institution, an endowment of zero dollars, an
idea and a concept that most of the time hadn't
worked when similar things had been tried. And I
did it easily, freely, simply, but I know the risk
associated with it. In reality, If all of what I've
been saying about the situation in the country is
true, and I believe it is, there's an infinite
number of other jobs that farm a net. You just don't
know what it is. You just don't turn to it. But I'm
confident any one of us here, if this place fell
apart, could walk out of here and pick their job.
And that's your net. That's a net. It's just not
strong where you can look at it and say, ha, there it
is. I see it. You just intuitively know it's out
there. And that's different. And most people
can't live with that. It's too risky. So what HARC
attracts are those changers. But
synergistically, my vision is that HARC will
never be an educational institution formally,
but it will be the place where the best education is
given. This will be where the leaders of the
collaborative institutions come and attract
their graduate students. We will teach courses
here, but they won't be HART courses. They'll be
Texas A&M Rice courses. We'll be networked in
satellite all over the world. Oxford and will
become part of this. The Hungarian Academy of
Science will be a collaborative institution.
There will be researchers in Budapest doing HART
research linked to Texas A&M, generating a
product that Exxon is going to invest in and market
in Brazil. And it'll work through the HARC
scenario, just like the company we just created
this year in Barcelona, Spain, that pulled
together Interra and Canada, which is the best
remote sensing company in the country, that
couldn't get the contract from the Joint Research
Center in Ispra, Italy of the EC to monitor the
crops, that needed the technology that Andy
Blanchard and our star center at HARC has. And we
couldn't either, because you can't spend
contract money out of the EC directly to a non-EC
country. So what do you do? Well, with a
fast-moving, creative international
organization like HAARP, with a Swiss member on
its board, Luc Tissot, with the knowledge of the EC
system, says the country that has on the highest
pecking order to receive such a contract is spain
because they have the lease let's create a company
in barcelona that's why we did it
let's create the company in barcelona it'll
receive the contract then you can subcontract to
hark and to canada and to west berlin now berlin and
hark did that and we'll be part of a 20 million
dollar contract from the ec that'll lead to all
kinds of leveraged advantages for Texas
Instruments, eSystems, and other companies in
Texas and in America playing in the C marketplace
that might otherwise have all gone somewhere
else. So we're going to stay entrepreneurial.
We're going to stay opportunistic. But we've got a
plan and a vision. I want the best minds doing
research at HARC. I do not believe that HARC like
any of the other institutions, can fully
take advantage of the energies of the people we
want here. I don't want them just to be at HARC. But I
want them to be primarily at HARC. This will become
the place where the brightest and the best migrate
because it's risky. And they thrive on that. and
because their graduate students will follow them
here. And while they're still working on their
PhDs at Rice and Texas A&M, they'll be doing that in
the labs at Hark. And hence, the brightest and best
from Rice will meet the brightest and best from
Texas A&M. And that synergistic educational
environment of learning will be far greater than
what Rice or A&M can create singularly. And the
classes will be held here. And they'll be taught by
the Rice faculty and the A&M faculty. And if the
faculty happens to be at heart that day doing
research at heart, they walk into our classroom
down here and teach the class. If the students
happen to be here, they walk in. If they don't, they
take it by satellite connection back to their
campus. And if you happen to be here from Oxford,
you do the same thing. And we network it right back
in all over Europe, all over the world. And if
Houston, coming back to my earlier comment, I
really believe that there's going to be 8 to 12
regions on the Earth, Mother Earth. And not more
than two or three of them will be in America, if that
many. And in my judgment, Texas, above all other
states, has the best opportunity to lead for
America. And Houston, above all other places in
Texas, is the right place. And if Houston and
Dallas can ever get over their local syndrome of
the Bedouin philosophy of competing with one
another, the Houston-Dallas region would be one
of the heartthrobs of the world. And this region
will become the Florence of the 21st century. And
the people in the world that have broad ideas that
want to be where the action is will come to Houston.
And they'll come to heart. And Hark will be somehow
linked in to almost every one of that kind of thing.
And that can happen. And if it doesn't happen, and
it doesn't happen in Houston, and Hark isn't a part
of it, I don't know where in the hell in America it's
going to happen. Because I don't see anybody else
working on it. That's a very optimistic
renaissance, neo-renaissance perception.
That's interesting. That's good. And that's kind
of what I see has to happen at the national level as
part of the rapidly changing global marketplace.
And there are going to be a few places, maybe
Eastern Europe somewhere will capture. I think
Berlin is going to be the new capital of Europe. I
just got back from there last week. Impressive
what's happened over there. Any number of things
could change that. But I think for America to have
New York's not going to hold up. I just don't think
it's going to make it. It's on the downhill slide.
The whole East Coast is so wrapped up in labor
problems of wading through those issues in the
next decade or two in the time frame before the
window of opportunity closes as the world
changes. I don't see it happening on the East
Coast. When guys like Mitch Eggers call me up from
MIT Lincoln and say, I've got to get out of here, I
pay attention to that. And the West Coast, the
environmental issues there are going to be so
similar to the difficulty to deal with on the West
Coast, which are the two logical other places. I
mean, if you were coming into Earth and you were
looking at North America and you'd never landed
here and you were looking at just what we now call
North America, or where you would land. Just think
about it. What would guide your thoughts of where
you'd want to sit down and maybe try to establish a
colony? Texas is a pretty damn natural place. I
mean, it's got all this coast. It's all that neat
little gulf water body down there. It's a... And
once you're here and you kind of see the people and
the attitude and where people can take on a vision
like a George Mitchell will just say, hell, that's
good, let's do it. I mean, we just hit another one,
you know. I mean, after you bring in a $6 billion
one, the other ones begin to sound less and less
overwhelming.
I'm trying to convince myself, I'm trying to share
this vision in pieces. Rarely do I say it this
aggressively.
But I've come to do it more and more lately because
it's bold enough to either make the listener say,
that guy is absolutely crazy, or I wonder if that
might just be doable. And I'm looking for those
that say, hmm, that might be doable. And I'm not
worried about those that say that guy is
absolutely crazy. Because it is doable, and
furthermore, we don't have a choice. We have to do
it. And there's enough power and wealth and belief
in the individual, and there's enough basis of
strength if we'll work together. And heart
provides that mechanism. opportunity for it to
happen. My biggest problem has been patience with
myself.
To recognize how difficult this is for the
institutions working with HAARC to even begin to
get their arms around how they can use it. The
institution that's been far and away the most
intelligent about taking advantage of HAARC is
Rice. Boy, they've just, they're smart. And it's
natural. They're smaller. Again, they're
private. They're private. They aren't
constrained by what the governor thinks. They can
just do it. And that is so powerful. And so I'm
trying to just keep the fuel on the heart fire,
trying to keep a realistic expectation about the
progress we can make in the next six months or a year
but not lose the vision of where we can be in a
decade. Because that's what I've got to keep my eye
on and keep encouraging the larger community and
trying to enlarge that community to catch that
vision and that belief.
I'm encouraged to maintain that because I'm not
sure George Mitchell shares that. I'm almost sure
he doesn't. When I speak like this to George, he
kind of cuts off real fast at some different
boundaries. But if George sees it on a smaller
scale, and that's a fallback, safer, more
realistic position than my larger global view,
then that just reinforces me to hold on to the
bigger one. Because if we don't reach mine and we
reach George's, that ain't going to be bad,
whatever his is. I don't have as good a feeling. for
what that one might turn out to be because I'm so
confident about the bigger one that whatever that
other one is, and I recognize that that's more
likely the one we'll achieve, that'll be OK. I
mean, I've already known that how I thought we
might get to where we are is very different than the
way we've done it. But I've grown up in the
laboratory. I've never gone in to discover
something empirically as an experimental
scientist or engineer that I've discovered what I
thought I was going to get or the way I thought I was
going to do it. You have to roll with the changes as
they occur. And so Hark's an experiment. It's just
like going in. What are your greatest stumbling
blocks that you could conceivably anticipate in
terms of creating problems for your vision for
continuation and expansion of Hark?
And I guess a related question, are you at, let's
say, a viable level now where art can survive in and
of itself as an ongoing institution and idea and
concept? We are at the cusp of that energy state or
that level.
I think it would be real hard to kill this
institution. That's
clearly a milestone. Yeah, oh yeah. No matter who
you are or why you wanted to, if you came after it,
it'd be real tough to kill it. It says that you have
both patronage out there now, Bryce, for example,
and then some of the institutions. And the
independent strength of the institution itself
is really coming on. If what I see is going to happen
in the next 18 months happens, then my answer would
be an unequivocal no way. If I walked out of here,
and George walked out of here, and some meaningful
forces wanted to kill the institution, it might be
doable. But it wouldn't be easy. Even at that? Even
at that. Because that's the question . Yeah. In 18
months, If what I see is going to happen happens,
George and I both can walk out of here and you can't
kill it. This thing is gone just like... Now, is it
fair to ask you what this is and what might happen?
Yeah, it's fair to ask if you want to ask. But I won't
answer it. I can't answer it.
Well, that's exciting. I'll watch. It's...
It's kind of like rearing a child, which you and I
have both done. And you say, can I really just let
that kid cry through the night and not get up and go
in there and check on him?
Can we turn it out in the street alone on its bicycle
and say, come home by such and such time and... You
know, you worry a little, but you finally decide
you've got to do that. And it's kind of a low. And
after they've done it four or five times, you know,
you don't even think about it anymore. And if they
come home an hour late and say, oh, hell, they're
all right, they just somehow had a, you know. We
aren't changing as diapers anymore. And it's
already learned to crawl. It may even be walking.
And it's beginning to run a little. So it's
maturing.
I'm not ready, and I don't know that I ever will be.
This is the most challenging job I've ever had of
any. It's the most difficult. It's also the most
satisfying and potentially the most rewarding
and meaningful. I'd love to leave this
organization in an unusually healthy condition
for somebody to come in and carry on. And I plan to do
that.
I think that could be accomplished
in the next decade. In the next 18 months, if the
things I see could happen do come to pass,
I don't know how mature the institution would be.
But I don't think you could run it off. You'd take a
lot of effort and a lot of dumb moves to kill it. and
with any sustaining support from a larger
community. See, this institution has no
constituency. None. Zero. There's no alumni.
Nobody knows about it. We're willing this thing
into life.
But once it makes a contribution that's clearly
defined as it's, contribution in a broader public
sense. That'll do it. It's done that enough
already that we're beginning to build some
interest and some curiosity. Unawareness is a
good word. But see, the story I told you just now
about the Super Climber, even if it's well
understood, it's not recognized the role Hart
played in bringing that to Texas. And nobody
really knows how the supertiner got to Texas. But
we just assumed it had to be something
magical. I mean, did the governor do it? Not only
that, I've mentioned that to people and they
scoff. It's sort of like, that's not what's going
on. There's people down there reading their own
press releases. Yeah, sure. You bet. That's
right. And see, that's understandable. I mean,
how could that have happened there? But even if you
don't know where it happened, it just couldn't
have happened there because, I mean, it was too
young, it was too immature, it couldn't have
possibly done all that. Well, when reality is, in
part of historical fact, that's what happened.
And it's not, I mean, it's not a matter of
conjecture. It's easily proved in documentable
evidence. But
until you reach some perception level, Reality
doesn't have anything to do with this. It's
perception. That's right. And then you just have
to live with it. So you just have to let that go by.
And those scoffers don't know the answer. They
just know what the answer couldn't be. Speaking of
which, do you have access to the public relations
staff, whatever, that Mr. Mitchell used? Oh,
sure. I mean, are they integral elements? Because
what you're saying is very true, not just for Hart,
but for any entrepreneurial endeavor. You have to
develop visibility. You have to develop an image,
a public perception. Well, it's been a matter of
delicate balance to know when I could take
advantage of Mitchell Energy and Development's
PR and when I couldn't. One of the curiosities of
learning this city for me Because I was a newcomer
to Houston in January of 85. Nobody knew who I was
either, except a few Aggies,
who did a magnificent job of introducing me into
the community. But one of the things that I learned
early on is that George Mitchell is bigger than
life in Houston. And the Woodlands was not
conceived or presented, but
as a part of Houston, but it was the woodlands. And
the biggest hurdle I've had to jump in Houston is
the barrier of the fact that HARC is in the
woodlands, and it's a George Mitchell
enterprise, and that HARC was created to sell dirt
in the woodlands. Yeah. Okay. So if I go to the
foundation downtown Houston and ask for support
or endorsement for Hart, they don't want to be seen
in Houston as having been duped by Mitchell or
Mitchell Energy or George Mitchell individually
into helping him pay for his deal, which was his
alone, either for his own image and recognition or
for his profit or both. And so if I call up the PR
people at Mitchell Energy and have them contact
the Post or the News, then when they get called by
the Mitchell PR people, it just reinforces that
HARC is just an instrument. So that's one of those
perceptions out there. Well, sure. And I have to be
very careful about that. And many times I have to
lose out on the opportunity because I don't have
the staff and the depth and the knowledge and
experience in HARC's PR. See, I didn't start out
immediately to pull together a PR office, a
communications office, because I thought, heck,
I can just use Mitchell's. It's already paid for,
and I can tap into it. And in six months, I realized I
was shooting heart right through the heart. And it
didn't matter how much I had to say about it, it's
true. Perception becomes reality, particularly
if you reinforce it by using those pawns. Oh, it's
going to be true. And so, and it's been some source
of frustration to George, because he got all this
talent that's paid for, and he knows they know what
to do, and he knows they're good, and why don't you
use them? And I said, George, I can't. And I said,
because it reinforces the fact that HARC works for
you, is owned by you. And you know, George, that's
not the case. I work for the HARC board, and HARC is
owned by HARC. a non-profit private
organization, as he well knows. But Hark has the
benefit of George Mitchell being on our board and
of George Mitchell being the angel of Hark. George
Mitchell gave 100 acres of his land to Hark. He has
put in cash money in the five years, now it's almost
six years I have been here, about $20 million. So
George's net contribution to HARC is 100 acres of
land worth $10 million plus $20 million in cash in
six years. But if the perception out in the street
is that, in fact, this is a tool of another
developer to sell land, as you suggested. That is
the perception. Yeah. Yeah, I see what you're
talking about. That's it. And the reality is, and
the way I now address that issue, is your heart is
going to help sell dirt in the wilderness. It's
going to be the best research institution of its
kind in the world, and people are going to want to be
close to it. We've already got some of the
brightest and best people you can find in the world
in their discipline that can be anywhere in the
world they want to be, and they want to be at heart.
Now tell me what that means. There's nobody here
that doesn't have a choice anywhere they want to
be. That's certainly an answer. So why are they
here? Well, a lot of different reasons, but in
every case they're here because they want to be.
And
they are not here to sell dirt in the woodlands.
They don't understand real estate. They don't
care about real estate. These are scientific
people. who are looking for something different
than what the traditional academic, government,
or industry pieces of society from which they've
come, and from which every one of us have had
experience in at least two of those three. And this
is different, and it's exciting, and it's where we
want to be. And so we're not here primarily to help
the woodlands. Sure, the woodlands is going to
benefit from this, but we can't help that.
Wherever you put us as a team, that community is
going to benefit. But so is Houston. So is Clear
Lake. So is Texas. So is America. So let's don't get
too picky here. And just because the guy that
happens to own that dirt out there is going to
benefit, take a look at what he has done
individually. He's not going to get a return on $30
million in his lifetime. by selling dirt in the
woodlands, and he's already put that into harking
five years. Come on. Grow up. Get up on the level
here of doing something for the state and the
nation. You know, a journalist would understand
that. Have you, you know, the man on the street is
going to understand the angle. Yeah. Right? I
mean, and not only that, but Mitchell's the one
with the visibility. He's the one that they shoot
at, right? Yeah. But a journalist ought to be
smarter than that, especially a business
journalist or a... well see I think it's begun to
diffuse and I've been saying it this way now for the
last two years where I believe those that but but we
still have a park institutionally hasn't matured
and become important enough for them to say all
those people are reading their own press down
there that's not the way it happened I mean they
don't know what's going on out there and it didn't
really interesting enough intellectually to
take the time to really go find that now when we hit
that and we're coming We're coming hell-bent for
leather. And this institution is about to break
through that barrier. So it will be a barrier. The
perception, the world's perception will change.
That's the barrier. That's right. But for the
perception to change, their interest in who are
they has to get up another notch for them to get
interested enough to, by God, come answer, come
ask the question. And when they do, I think they
will go away with the answer. And all of a sudden...
That other stuff will just dissipate like fog in
the wind, and it'll just be part of the history of
Hark. And you just have to wait and not focus on that
and let that eat you up. Just go where you're going.
Keep your vision clear. Keep doing those things
that lead you there, and one day, you'll bust
through that barrier, and all these people will
show up and say, well, golly, what have you guys
been doing? Well, tell me, did you really do that,
Super Collider? Is this thing really not a deal to
sell dirt in the woodlands? Oh, well, how isn't it?
Well, gee, now I see it. And then all of a sudden, the
community will start saying, that's a wonderful
asset. That's a tool we need to be using. Just to get
endorsement. I mean, there was a resistance in
this community even in Dorsark. I was asked twice
personally to travel in Japan with Kathy
Whitmire. to speak technical, and we needed some
Houstonian who knew how to speak technical, so
Houston would look technical. Yet to go to the city
and start asking the mayor in talks to mention
HAARC as an asset in Houston like Rice or like
University of Houston, from which he graduated,
or talk about the medical center and talk about
this new, exciting, important asset that's
forthcoming in the future of Houston. the Houston
Advanced Research Center, in selected times when
it was important, because maybe I was in the
audience or George was or somebody they knew
needed to hear that, but to really think of it in any
generic way that we got to talk about this thing
coming, and it's part of our future, and we're all
nurturing it. It's a new grandbaby. But, you know,
I think even NASA has gone through that. Sure.
Remarkably, isn't it? Houston sort of blocked
NASA out, especially during good times. I know. I
know it just because. And really in bad times, they
began to turn back. That's right. Well, what David
did with the partners in space thing, see, I mean,
that's helped a lot. So in that sense, Houston is an
interesting community. It's much more like a free
trade zone than it is a community
in that sense. I think Dallas, while it's harder to
break into Dallas as a citizen of the community
than, say, in Houston, Houston's open. You roll in
here, put together a company, and start
performing, you're part of the leadership of the
town. And it's much better in Dallas if your great
granddaddy did something there. It's much more
like the old South, like trying to break into
Atlanta, the in crowd. Houston, hell, you blow in
here and do deals. I mean, George Bush and Bob
Mosbacher can come in here right out of Yankee land
and end up in the leadership of the city. And it's
wide open and aggressive here, but I've said this
on more than one occasion, is that that creates an
opportunity on one side, but it's a deficit on
another because where's the leadership? Where's
the core group that can just decide we're going to
make this happen. And anoint you. And it's hard to
get your arms around that. And right now in this
city, it doesn't exist in my judgment. There's not
anybody that has a real clear vision of where
Houston is going on the world scene, how it's going
to lead in America, what's going to be, who's going
to be living here and what are they going to be doing
in 20 years and how will it work and why will it be
important. as a leading global city. It's almost
assured that oil will not be what it is 20 years from
now. Neither will cotton or cow. And where is the
wealth going to come from? And if the city and the
state doesn't invest in its educational systems,
if it doesn't keep and improve its research base at
NASA, at the Super Collider, There are
universities, and if it doesn't, establish some
new links, particularly HARC, which is the first
effort. And this institution and this city
happens to be now six years out in front of any other
because we've just got six years' leap of figuring
out how to play this game. HARC becomes the trailer
hitch that hooks these three pieces to the
changing global economy that permits academic
and industry to work more closely together in a
comfortable way. And the closest thing I've come
to, at the encouragement of one of my board
members, Paul Howell, is our battle cry, as he
calls it, is the Houston Advanced Research Center
linking science and technology to the
marketplace.
So I don't know how to... I need help, and I would
hope, and I would ask, request, that as you guys
kind of listen to all this, because this will be
quite an educational experience for me from you as
you learn from a completely different
perspective, not having been nearly as close to it
as I've been. You can look at this with fresh eyes
and fresh perspective, and I'd love to have your
recommendations, your suggestions, your
thoughts on if what I've been saying rings any
resonant card of reality with what you think the
future holds. That's good. Yeah, I think we might
be able to respond a little bit to that, especially
having been in the academic climate or being there
now. And dealing with NASA is kind of intriguing.
I'm very concerned about the transition in
technology and this kind of startup industries.
So I know what you're doing. It's fascinating. And
this has really been a very good description and
development of effort. And I think now it helps
define relationships with Hart, the Woodlands,
George Mitchell. And yourself in general, the
future here, what do you apply now? Well, I've been
impressed
in the open-mindedness I've found in George.
particularly. When I've known,
I've just known he wished I'd have done it another
way.
When I felt how I could have done it in a way that
would have probably brought, in the short run, a
lot more value to the woodlands
and i have been forced
to be aware of the perception of the larger
community and some of my judgment calls of what
i have to i have to protect hark my job is to protect
hark that's right and the credibility is The
essence of it. Yeah. And that's a perception.
That's right. And I refuse, under any
circumstance, to... I mean, that responsibility
of the president of HARC cannot be for sale. Under
any circumstance, there can be nothing that could
lure me to ever make a decision that wasn't in
HARC's best long-term interest. Look, you don't
launch something like this for a short-term gain.
You're not going to get any short-term gain. This
is a long-term deal. We're talking decades.
Whoever follows me in this job should have a much
easier time. Different. It'll be hard. It's
always hard. But it'll be a different set. I mean,
if I were running a major university, that with a
long tradition, running Texas A&M, for example,
or running the Engineering Experiment Station
had a much different set of forces and
complexities to it than starting an institution
that never existed. In the one hand, it's damn
delightful not to have a constituency out there
that can tell you how they think you ought to be
doing your job. On the other hand, if you don't have
any constituency, who do you turn to for help? when
you need it. And so there's some positives and
negatives to both sides of it. So, but in 20 or 30
years, Park
could be a major force for Texas and maybe America.
And that
would be incredibly fast. That really would.
Well, you've done a lot fast already. About five or
six years for an institution. Yeah. That's just
getting . You could actually go faster than that.
Because there's a multiplier effect. If you've
got some positive publicity showing up in
visibility, it matters. Yes, that's right.
People may not even think of you because they don't
even know you exist now. But you hit a home run, and
suddenly your name's in the papers. Well, I
frustrated a lot of the people that would have had
us go after that kind of recognition early on.
And I've got another fundamental gut feel that I
follow, particularly in this state, is don't do
too much talking before you've done some doing.
Good Texas logic. You bet, yeah. Let's do a little
and then talk. And talk is all right as long as it
isn't brag if it's just fact. And I didn't want to
rally a lot of press and a lot of visibility in PR to
talk about the new institution that's going to do
something and going to deliver all this wonderful
stuff for Texas and for America, et cetera, et
cetera. What I wanted to do was get some pelts on the
wall and get some credibility, that you could talk
about those. And then if you could put those
together, you could begin to build the projection
of where you could go. And we have just hit that. Now
we've got it. And now I'm ready to bring that
attention to us because we can talk specifically,
factually, documentively about several very
exciting issues that we've done. And we've done it
in five years. And that's for two reasons.
One is that we do have unusually talented people
here that want to be here. And I'll never discount
the effort that these people are pouring into
breathing life into this dream. They're working
hard and they're making it happen. The other is
that it's at a time in the evolution of the country
and of the world where the opportunity to make an
impact fast has never been better. I think it was
harder for SRI in 1920s to get started. There
wasn't nearly the screaming need. I mean, we were
self-sufficient. We were self-sustained as a
nation. We had an unusual period. We were king of
the hill in that time. And now there's a greater
need for an institution like ours. And so it can
move faster. So if you've got good people working
hard, you can get a leveraged effect. And I think
that's happening. So I'm proud of the people and
the work that they're putting in and the
contribution they've made. And I think we're
doing it at maybe one of the last opportunistic
times to get it done where you can leverage.
Because if the country waits much longer to
address the gut-level issues that we have of How
many bright people do we really have left? What is
the quality of our education? What kind of workers
are we turning out? What do we know how to do with the
ideas of the people that are capable of producing
them? How do we understand how the rest of the world
is changing, and do we link to it, and what's our
mechanism for doing that? All of those issues in
some real kind of complex way, Park is embracing.
not just the standard we do teaching service and
basic research. We need to continue that. We have
to focus on that, enhance it, and improve it. But if
we do all of that without doing a heart and having
this new tool, you can't fix it. You're one tool
short of being able to work on the problem. And so
that's part of what I think the vision of ARC has to
be, and it has to be captured somehow that way. And I
keep reaching for these different parables,
these different ways of saying it, where it can be
understood by at least the above average person on
the street interested in where the country's
going to be able to go. I don't know what's going to
happen in this budget. situation in Washington
right now. These guys aren't dealing with the
problem. They don't know how. It made me so upset.
It's embarrassing to be from this country right
now.